Adding Test Path Confusion (#1013)
OWASP/wstg: document/4-Web_Application_Security_Testing/02-Configuration_and_Deployment_Management_Testing/13-Test_for_Path_Confusion.md

# Test Path Confusion

|ID          |
|------------|
|WSTG-CONF-13|

## Summary

Proper configuration of application paths is important because, if paths are not configured correctly, they allow an attacker to exploit other vulnerabilities at a later stage using this misconfiguration.

For example, if the routes are not configured correctly and the target also uses a CDN, the attacker can use this misconfiguration to execute web cache deception attacks.

> As a result, to prevent other attacks, this incorrect configuration should be evaluated by the tester

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a result, to prevent other attacks, this configuration should be evaluated by the tester.
```

## Test Objectives

- Make sure application paths are configured correctly

## How To Test

### Black-Box Testing

> In black box testing this issue, the tester should replace all the existing paths with the paths that do not exist, and then examine the behavior and status code of the evaluated program.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a black-box testing scenario, the tester should replace all the existing paths with paths that do not exist, and then examine the behavior and status code of the target.
```

> For example, there is a path in the application that is a dashboard and shows the amount of the user's balance:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, there is a path in the application that is a dashboard and shows the amount of the user's account balance (money, game credits, etc).
```

> In black-box testing of this topic, the tester must replace all existing paths with non-existent ones, and then examine the behavior and status code of the evaluated application. Example: There is a path in the application that is a dashboard and shows the amount of the user's balance if the path mentioned in this way is ```https://example.com/user/dashboard```, the tester should test the different modes that the developer may have considered for this path, for Web Cache Deception vulnerability if the tester of this path ```https:// example.com/user/dashboard/non.js``` Dashboard information is visible, and the target uses CDN, the Web Cache Deception attack is applicable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assume the path is `https://example.com/user/dashboard`, the tester should test the different modes that the developer may have considered for this path. For Web Cache Deception vulnerabilities the analyst should consider a path such as `https:// example.com/user/dashboard/non.js` if dashboard information is visible, and the target uses a CDN (or other web cache), then Web Cache Deception attacks are likely applicable.
```

### White-Box Testing

> In the white box testing, examine the application routing file, Most of the time, developers use regular expression in application routing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Examine the application routing configuration, Most of the time, developers use regular expressions in application routing.
```

> In this example, in the urls.py file in the Django framework, I will show you an example of Path Confusion that the developer did not use the correct regular expression and there is an incorrect configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, in the `urls.py` file of a Django framework application, we see an example of Path Confusion. The developer did not use the correct regular expression resulting in a vulnerability:
```

> ```text

Reviewer: Shouldn't this be:
```md
 ```python
```

Author: ok, i changed to python

    from django.urls import re_path
    from . import views

    urlpatterns = [

        re_path(r'.*^dashboard', views.path_confusion ,name = 'index'),

    ]
```

> In the above example, if the path ```https://example.com/dashboard/none.js``` is also opened by the user in the browser, the user dashboard information can be displayed, and if the target uses a CDN, the Web Cache Deception attack can be implemented.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the path `https://example.com/dashboard/none.js` is also opened by the user in the browser, the user dashboard information can be displayed, and if the target uses a CDN or web cache, a Web Cache Deception attack can be implemented.
```

> ## References
> 
> - [Bypassing Web Cache Poisoning Countermeasures](https://portswigger.net/research/bypassing-web-cache-poisoning-countermeasures)
> - [Path confusion: Web cache deception threatens user information online](https://portswigger.net/daily-swig/path-confusion-web-cache-deception-threatens-user-information-online)
> 
> ## Tools
> 
> - [OWASP Zed Attack Proxy](https://www.zaproxy.org)
> 
> ## Whitepaper
> 
> [Web Cache Deception Attack](https://omergil.blogspot.com/2017/02/web-cache-deception-attack.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Tools

- [OWASP Zed Attack Proxy](https://www.zaproxy.org)
- [Burp Suite](https://portswigger.net/burp)

## References

- [Bypassing Web Cache Poisoning Countermeasures](https://portswigger.net/research/bypassing-web-cache-poisoning-countermeasures)
- [Path confusion: Web cache deception threatens user information online](https://portswigger.net/daily-swig/path-confusion-web-cache-deception-threatens-user-information-online)
- [Web Cache Deception Attack](https://omergil.blogspot.com/2017/02/web-cache-deception-attack.html)
```

### White-Box Testing

Examine the application routing configuration, Most of the time, developers use regular expressions in application routing.

In this example, in the `urls.py` file of a Django framework application, we see an example of Path Confusion. The developer did not use the correct regular expression resulting in a vulnerability:

```python
    from django.urls import re_path
    from . import views

    urlpatterns = [

        re_path(r'.*^dashboard', views.path_confusion ,name = 'index'),

    ]
```

If the path `https://example.com/dashboard/none.js` is also opened by the user in the browser, the user dashboard information can be displayed, and if the target uses a CDN or web cache, a Web Cache Deception attack can be implemented.

## Tools

- [OWASP Zed Attack Proxy](https://www.zaproxy.org)
- [Burp Suite](https://portswigger.net/burp)

## Remediation

> 
>  - Refrain from classify/handling cached based on file extension or path (leverage content-type).
>  - Ensure the caching mechanism(s) adhere to cache-control headers specified by your application.
>  - Implement RFC compliant File Not Found handling and redirects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

- Refrain from classify/handling cached based on file extension or path (leverage content-type).
- Ensure the caching mechanism(s) adhere to cache-control headers specified by your application.
- Implement RFC compliant File Not Found handling and redirects.
```

- [OWASP Zed Attack Proxy](https://www.zaproxy.org)
- [Burp Suite](https://portswigger.net/burp)

## Remediation

 - Refrain from classify/handling cached based on file extension or path (leverage content-type).
 - Ensure the caching mechanism(s) adhere to cache-control headers specified by your application.
 - Implement RFC compliant File Not Found handling and redirects.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
